+++
date = 2020-08-07T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "The Network Imperative"
authors = ["Barry Libert", "Megan Beck", "Jerry Wind"]
season = "S08: The Network Imperative"
title = "E02: Pivot - Implementing Network Business Models"
+++

Pivot is a five step process for implementing network business models, proposed by the authors of The Network Imperative. Pivot is an acronym for Pinpoint, Inventory, Visualize, Operate, and Track. Pinpoint is identifying your business model and your mental model of your own business. Inventory is managing your company’s physical, human, intellectual, and network capital. Visualize is understanding the value cycle of your company and your network platform. Operate is finding the funding, technology, and talent needed for your business and your network. Track, finally, is measuring your internal team and your external network. 

## Pinpoint: Identify Your Current Business Model 

The first step to transforming your business into a network business is understanding where you are now. What business model, preferences, biases, and decisions got you and your business to where you are today? The Network Imperative suggests the following survey as a conversation starter for your team: 

1. Which of the following descriptions best describes your organization? 
   1. Manufacturer, distributor, or retailer 
   2. Professional services, care provider, or consultancy 
   3. Developer or creator of technology, biotechnology, or pharmaceuticals 
   4. Platform provider, facilitator, or connector 
2. Where does the bulk of your allocated capital go? 
   1. Property, plant, and equipment (PPE) 
   2. Payroll for employees who provide services to customers 
   3. Research and development for software, patents, and other IP 
   4. Building and evangelizing a network or platform 
3. What does top talent usually do at your firm? 
   1. Plant, production, and operations 
   2. Client or customer services 
   3. Research and development 
   4. Digital development (cloud, big data analytics, social, and mobile) 
4. What risks are of greatest concern to your organization? 
   1. Damage to PPE, loss of inventory 
   2. Loss of key employees 
   3. Inability to protect your IP (pirated software, generic drugs, etc.) 
   4. Loss or declining loyalty of customers 
5. Which of the following activities is most important for the competitive success of your organization? 
   1. Efficient manufacturing, distribution, and operations 
   2. Hiring the right talent and keeping utilization up 
   3. Protecting IP and developing new technologies 
   4. Creating customer interactions and tapping in to the crowd 
6. What KPIs are the most important for leaders to track in your firm? 
   1. Inventory turnover, production efficiency 
   2. Hours billed, employee utilization 
   3. R&D output, creation of new IP (patents, software, biotech) 
   4. Visitors, users, subscriptions, and transactions 

Once you have an understanding of your current business model and mental model by going through the above survey, assess your company’s skills and asset preference. 

* Skills 
   * What has your education and experience prepared you for so far? 
   * Which of the four asset types do you prefer? 
   * What about the team around you? Do they have similar skills and experiences? Do you reinforce or challenge each other’s mental models? 
* Assets: Physical, Human, Intellectual, or Network 
   * Which asset do you believe brings the most risk to a firm? 
   * Which asset is the most difficult to manage? 
   * Which asset generates the most value? 
   * What types of assets do the most valuable firms have? 
   * What is the most important asset for your organization? 

## Inventory: Take Stock of All Your Assets 
The next step is surveying your arsenal and rebalancing your assets. Highly scalable network businesses usually utilize digital technologies for monitoring their inventory. While the goal of a network business is to increase the proportion that network assets take up in their inventory, each of the asset types contribute to the network assets in the following ways: 
* Physical assets: Physical assets, though are not the focus of network companies, can still be a valuable complement to a network business model. Amazon, for example, operates its distribution centers to improve its marketplace business. 
* Human assets: You need to determine whether your employees possess the knowledge or skills required to providing services that would attract valuable network assets to your network. 
* Intellectual assets: One important intellectual capital is the data your firm owns or can access, such as market research on your key customer segments. Other import intellectual assets include patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, and brands.  
* Network assets: Customers, prospectors, alumni, suppliers, distributors, integrators, investors, communities, peers, and even competitors fall into this category. Higher the affinity between members of the network and your company, more value they will contribute to your network. 

## Visualize: Create Your New Network Business Model 
The next step is to form a vision of your company as a network company and of your company’s product as a network. The hallmarks of network orchestration are the trust, intimacy, and reciprocity (co-creation and shared economics) present in the network. First, you should analyze the value your firm can give to the participants of the network. For example, the network might provide a way for network participants to prove credentials to each other through a ratings system. Second, you should consider partnering with external partners. For example, Nike worked with Apple to integrate Nike+ with the iPod, thereby inviting iPod users to the Nike+ network in which participants could compete against each other on exercise progress. Lastly, understand desired outcome. Operating a network requires real-time changes in response to changing member demands. Consider the revenue, customer affinity, brand awareness, customer success, and customer feedback you want out of operating the network.  

If you are envisioning a network in which members are selling goods or services to each other, the platform for the network needs to be a marketplace. If you are envisioning a network in which members are sharing information with each other, the platform for the network needs to be a forum for communication.  

## Operate: Enact Your Network Business Model 
Once you have a vision for your network business model, you need to implement it and bring it to reality. Google X exhibits some best practices for managing innovative projects within a large company: 
1. Separation: X labs are located in a physically separate space and has a different reporting structure. This insulates X employees from bureaucracy and potential meddling of the broader corporation. 
2. Low investment: Former Google spokeswoman Jill Hazelbaker notes, “The sums involved are very small by comparison to the investments we make in our core businesses.” 
3. The right talent: X hires leaders with passion and relevant experience. 
4. The external network: X has partnered with at least sixteen other companies ranging from Silicon Valley startups to established chip manufacturers.  

Authors of The Network Imperative suggest that you select a network leader to lead and manage the network initiative. You must choose a network leader who can intimately understand the target network. Once appointed, the network leader should have the freedom to make decisions independently and rapidly.  

There are three big obstacles to creating innovation within a large company: 
1. Internal politics: Traditional core businesses might get in the way of innovative new teams in jealousy over funding and prestige. 
2. Lack of focus: Employees and executives must split their time and mindshare between old responsibilities and new projects. 
3. Lack of patience: New initiatives struggle to match the performance of existing business units, often for the first several years. New initiatives often go through multiple iterations before they strike the right chord with their network members.  

To support a network business in its early stages of growth, the company must use a different style of management for the network business from the rest of the company: 
1. Reporting structure: There should be no traditional core business unit leaders between the new team and the CEO and the board. 
2. Decision authority: The new team should have the authority to make expedited decisions for a rapid, low cost, and multiple-iteration development process. 
3. Focus: The new team should work on the new initiative and nothing else.  
4. Expectations: The brand new initiative should be measured differently from mature core businesses.  

Network orchestration requires a happy, invested, rewarded, and fast-growing network. The network leader must decide how to reward the members for their participation. Examples include shared revenue (Uber and Airbnb), esteem (LinkedIn), and information (Yelp). 

## Track: Measure What Matters for a Network Business 
Jeff Bezos says Amazon has a “culture of metrics.” Amazon tracks its performance against about 500 measurable goals, 80% of which are related to customer objectives. Its massive data allows Amazon to segment customers into each individual rather than classic customer segments like the millennials. Amazon is so confident about understanding their customers that they filed a patent for anticipatory shipping under the hypothesis that they will be able to predict what customers will want before they place an order. Maintaining specific, measurable goals and tracking key metrics allow Amazon to make decisions quickly and confidently, with the best information available to them.  

Authors of The Network Imperative suggest the following metrics for tracking the network: 
1. Size of network: Count of people participating in the network and count of products listed. 
2. Level of network activity: Transactions, interactions, postings, and communications generated by the participants.  
3. Value created by the network: Count of new connections, positive reviews, or likes.  
4. Network sentiment: What is said about your network on social media. 
5. Network loyalty: Number of repeat transactors or participants. 

The above metrics should be measured frequently and in a timely manner. 

## Getting more from the authors themselves 
If you found the authors’ description of network orchestrators insightful, you can purchase a copy of The Network Imperative on Amazon, or download a free abbreviated eBook on OpenMatters website. If you want to adopt The Network Imperative to your business, the authors also provide a workbook, an interactive management advice software, and a training program via EdX. 