+++
date = 2020-08-07T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "The Network Imperative"
authors = ["Barry Libert", "Megan Beck", "Jerry Wind"]
season = "S08: The Network Imperative"
title = "E01: The Network Imperative"
+++

Authors of The Network Imperative distinguish the network companies from the companies that are not, and describe how network companies see the world differently from their incumbent competitors.  

## The value is in the network 
Every organization is either digital predator or digital prey. The most disruptive of the digital companies are the network companies who create and operate platforms, marketplaces, and communities. Traditional companies and network companies differ in their ways of thinking: 
1. Traditional companies ask what value their firm can provide. Network companies ask what value the members of their network can provide.  
2. Traditional companies think the goal is to sell more products to customers. Network companies see the value is in customer co-creation, advocacy, and sharing. 
3. Traditional companies think they’re operating at full capacity. Network companies see a world full of additional potential. 

In today’s market, the most valuable goods are ideas, intellectual capital, and communication. They are digital, and thus, digital networks allow them to proliferate with great ease at a scaling cost nearly zero. These digital networks are subject to the law of increasing returns. That is, the value in these digital networks is found in the connectivity between nodes, and every additional node increases the value of the network exponentially. This means these networks are designed for growth, as members of the networks are incentivized to grow the networks. 

All businesses can be classified into one of four business models based on how they allocate capital: 
1. Asset builders deliver value through the use of physical goods. 
2. Service providers deliver value through skilled people. 
3. Technology creators deliver value through ideas and intellectual property such as software. 
4. Network orchestrators deliver value through connectivity, by creating platforms that connect participants to interact or transact with each other. Participants sell products, build relationships, share advice, give reviews, and collaborate. 

## Strategies for creating network value 
The following strategies are necessary to creating network value as a network company.  

### Technology: From Physical to Digital 
The company must adopt a digitally enabled business model as opposed to physically enabled ones. Digitally enabled business models have the following advantages: 
1. Convenience: Customers can interact with the company whenever and wherever they want.  
2. Scalability: Acquiring an additional customer happens at a low cost, allowing for an exponential scaling globally. 
3. Analytics: Information gathered can be used to help the company develop other services. 

Authors of The Network Imperative list, as examples of digitally enabled businesses, mobile technology, social media, cloud technology, big data analytics, and the internet of things.  

### Assets: From Tangible to Intangible 
The company must transition away from tangible assets in favor of intangible ones. Physical assets depreciate, become obsolete, can be destroyed by flood and fire, and are expensive to move around. On the other hand, people have a lot of potential, generate new ideas, solve problems on their own, and promote brands. Other than people and the services they provide, intangible assets include ideas, information, relationships, and access. Network orchestrators differentiate themselves by accessing the intangible assets of a network external to the company rather than owning and managing assets themselves.  

The executives must also become allocators of asset rather than operators. As active allocators of asset, executives must set measurable allocation goals, make pruning a part of the routine process, use multiple anchors to allocate budget, and set an example for all peers and team members. 

### Attitude: From Seller to Co-creator 
The company must consider network participants as co-creators rather than consumers. People will not contribute to your company’s network if they think you are using them as tools rather than as valued and respected partners. 

The most valuable customers give not only their money, not only their recommendations to their peers, but also their ideas, insights, services, assets, and relationships. There are two great examples. Lego encouraged customers to create and share custom Lego designs with the company and other customers by releasing, for free, the Lego Digital Designer software. Threadless, an online marketplace for apparel designs, receives three concrete benefits from participants of its community network. First is talent. Threadless does not need to find, recruit, or train these artists. Second is insight. The system automatically keeps the company up to date on the latest trends. Last is agility. No investments are required in facilities and the staff. This allows the company to adapt to new models without worrying about previous investments.  

### Measurement: From Accounting to Big Data 
Lastly, the company must change its metrics to suit the nature of big data rather than using accounting practices. Accounting was developed for tangible assets and hence cannot aptly take into account the intangible data. Big data can capture the intangible assets as well as the tangible assets. Another key difference is the processing time. Accounting reports are obsolete by the time they are prepared and read. Companies need to build a big data analytics pipeline to get real time insights and decisions. 

## Through the eyes of network leaders 
There are three big differences between the way network leaders see the world and the others do. They are 1) how they manage cost, 2) how they manage output, and 3) how they manage metrics.  

### Managing the cost 
Traditional thinking holds that companies need to be large-scale to reduce unit cost and stay competitive. Network thinkers leverage intangible assets and external networks to achieve a very low marginal cost from the onset. 

### Managing the output 
Traditional thinking advises that employees must be carefully managed to maximize output. Network thinkers, however, treat employees as network partners who manage their own work and create more value. They give to employees freedom, trust, and responsibility.  

### Managing the metrics 
Traditional thinking believes that financial accounting provides a thorough view of a company’s health and viability. Network thinkers believe that a complete view comes only when they add measures of intangible assets, such as customer loyalty and employee engagement.  

## Getting more from the authors themselves 
If you found the authors’ description of network orchestrators insightful, you can purchase a copy of The Network Imperative on Amazon, or download a free abbreviated e-Book on OpenMatters website. If you want to adopt The Network Imperative to your business, the authors also provide a workbook, an interactive management advice software, and a training program via EdX. 