+++
date = 2020-12-07T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "Harvard Business Classics"
authors = ["William Sahlman"]
season = "S12: Harvard Business Classics"
title = "E01: How to Write a Great Business Plan"
+++

William Sahlman, a Baker Foundation Professor at Harvard Business School, whose publication in business and entrepreneurship span over 150 business cases and 3 books, describes the process of writing a great business plan.  

## The Four Factors 
The four factors that the business plan writer must include in a great business plan are the people, the opportunity, the context, and the risk and reward. The People is about who is starting and running the venture. The Opportunity is about what the business will sell and to whom, how fast it can grow, what its economics are, and what stand in the way of its success. The Context is the regulatory environment, interest rates, demographic trends, and inflation. Lastly, The Risk and Reward is the assessment of everything that can go wrong and right and a discussion of how to respond to each expected scenario. 

## Covering the Basics 
If you are unsure where to begin, begin by answering the following questions.  
* Who is the customer? 
* How does the customer make decisions about buying the product? 
* To what degree is the product a compelling purchase for the customer? 
* How will the product be priced? 
* How will the venture reach all identified customer segments? 
* How much is customer acquisition cost? 
* How much is the cost of delivery? 
* How much is the cost of customer service? 
* How easy is it to retain a customer? 

## Spotting the Opportunity 
If you are starting a new venture, go after the growing market. It is easier to fight for the market share in a growing market. At the same time, identify a market that is structurally attractive. There are some markets in which revenue does not translate to profit. There are some markets in which it is easy for new competitors to enter. A structurally attractive market allows for economies of scale to take place. Idea is one, but not the only, type of opportunity. For example, another form of opportunity is arbitrage. A chance to buy low and sell high, whatever the commodity may be, is arbitrage. Finally, strategically design the distribution of risk and reward. That is, capture all the reward for yourself and give all the risk to your competitors. 

## Thinking about Time 
When does the business have to buy resources, such as supplies, raw materials, and people? This is not necessarily the same as when the business has to pay for them. An effective business plan recognizes the difference between these two, and plans out accordingly to take advantage of the gap between them.