+++
date = 2020-01-07T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "The Effective Executive"
authors = ["Peter Drucker"]
season = "S01: The Effective Executive"
title = "E02: The Origins and Development of Management "
+++

Rarely in human history has any institution emerged as quickly as management or had as great an impact so fast. In less than 150 years, management has transformed the social and economic fabric of the world’s developed countries. Though industries have changed multiple times, the fundamental task of management remains the same: to make people capable of joint performance through common goals, common values, the right structure, and the training and development they need to perform and to respond to change.  

## Management is a product of the First World War. 

During most of human history, producers were trained as apprentices over a long time, spanning years if not decades. During World War I, however, states needed to boost the production of supplies while the young skilled workers were fighting in the battle fields. Societies needed to train large numbers of unskilled population to be productive workers in practically no time. To meet this need, businesses in the United States and the United Kingdom began to apply the theory of scientific management developed by Frederick W. Taylor to the systematic training of blue-collar workers on a large scale. They analyzed tasks and broke them down into individual, unskilled operations that could then be learned quickly. Further developed in World War II, training was then picked up by the Japanese and the Koreans, who made it the basis for their countries’ phenomenal development. Training has propelled the transformation of the world economy by enabling low-wage countries to become efficient, and yet still low-wage, competitors almost overnight. 

## From working harder to working smarter. 

Management pioneers Thomas Watson Sr. at IBM, Robert E. Wood at Sears, and George Elton Mayo at the Harvard Business School determined that the assembly line was a short term compromise. They began brainstorming and experimenting with automation as the way to organize the manufacturing process, quality circle to organize team work, and information-based organization to manage human resources. During the 1920s and 1930s, decentralization arose to combine the advantages of bigness and the advantages of smallness within one enterprise. Accounting went from bookkeeping to analysis and control. Planning grew out of the Gantt charts designed in 1917 and 1918 to plan war production. Each of these managerial innovations replaced working harder with working smarter. 

## Management for the knowledge society.  

Knowledge, especially advanced knowledge, is always specialized. No one among the engineers, designers, marketing experts, and everyone else working together in a joint venture, would be effective without the managed enterprise. While traditional management, which was used in manufacturing industries, assumed correctly that the executives and middle managers possess a super set of knowledge that their employees possess, such assumption is no longer true in today’s knowledge-based society. The management today is challenged with establishing an efficient decision making process in an organization in which individual contributors possess more specialized knowledge, and therefore the means of production, than do the managers. 