+++
date = 2020-01-07T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "The Effective Executive"
authors = ["Peter Drucker"]
season = "S01: The Effective Executive"
title = "E04: The Accountability of Management"
+++

## Businesses are organs of society. 

Business enterprises, like public service institutions, are organs of society. They do not exist for their own sake, but to fulfill a specific social purpose and to satisfy a specific need of a society, a community, or individuals. The mission of a business enterprise is economic performance. Business management must always, in every decision and action, put economic performance first. It can justify its existence and its authority only by the economic results it produces. A business management has failed if it does not produce economic results. It has failed if it does not supply goods and services desired by the consumer at a price the consumer is willing to pay. It has failed if it does not improve the wealth-producing capacity of the economic resources entrusted to it. 

Management as a social function is still poorly understood. To whom is management accountable? And for what? On what does management base its power? What gives it legitimacy? These are not business questions or economic questions. These are political questions.  

## Management must maximize productivity of people. 

The task of management is to make work productive and the worker effective. A business enterprise has only one true resource: people. It succeeds by making human resources productive. Organizing work according to its own logic is only the first step. The second and far more difficult one is making work suitable for human beings, and their logic is radically different from the logic of work. The management must define, not only which work needs to be done, but also how the work should be done by people.   

Management is about human beings. Its task is to make people capable of joint performance, to make their strengths effective and their weaknesses irrelevant.  Every enterprise requires commitment to common goals and shared values. Without such commitment, there is no enterprise; there is only a mob. The mission of the organization has to be clear enough and big enough to provide common vision. Management’s first job is to think through, set, and exemplify those objectives, values, and goals.  

Management must enable the enterprise and each of its members to grow and develop as needs and opportunities change. Every enterprise is a learning and teaching institution. Training and development must be built into it on all levels. Training and development must never stop. 

Management is deeply embedded in culture. While what managers do in the United States, in Korea, or in France is exactly the same, how they do it is quite different. The difference between Japan’s economic success and India’s relative stagnation is largely explained by the fact that Japanese managers were able to plant imported management concepts in their own cultural soil and make them grow.  

## Measuring the performance of a business requires diverse, evolving, and external metrics. 

Just as a human being needs a diversity of measures to assess his or her health and performance, an organization needs a diversity of measures to access its health and performance. Quantity of output, market standing, innovation, productivity, development of people, quality, financial results are all critical to measuring an organization’s performance.  

The single most important thing to remember about any enterprise is that results exist only on the outside. The result of a hospital is a healed patient. The result of a school is a successful student. The result of a business is a satisfied customer. Inside an enterprise, there are only costs.  

## The theory of business is the mental model for the enterprise’s identity. 

Traditionally, veteran executives who have worked in an industry for a long time have had the best knowledge required to make an important decision about what work needs to be done and how the work should be done. However, as the pace of technological advancement accelerates and the most valuable products become information-based, the knowledge required to make business decisions is shifting down from the executives to the individual contributors, even fairly low ones. As a result, people without traditional managerial title or position are making risk-taking decisions such as what to do, what not to do, what to continue and what to abandon, what products, markets, and technologies to pursue and ignore. Every one of these men and women bases their decisions on some, if only vague, theory of the business. Every one, in other words, has an answer to the question, “What is our business and what should it be?” Thus, the answer to the question, “What is our business?” is the first responsibility of top management. 