+++
date = 2020-01-07T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "The Effective Executive"
authors = ["Peter Drucker"]
season = "S01: The Effective Executive"
title = "E03: The Purpose and Objectives of a Business"
+++

## Profit is neither evil nor the goal. 

The widespread concept that an organization exists to make a profit is not only wrong, it is harmful. Profit is not the purpose of business enterprise and business activity. Profit is not the explanation, cause, or rationale of business behavior and business decisions. Profit is the limiting factor of a business enterprise, the test of its validity.  

Deep-seated hostility toward profit is the most dangerous diseases of an industrial society, and it is responsible for the prevailing misbelief that there is an inherent contradiction between profit and a company's ability to make a social contribution. Actually, a company can make a social contribution only if it is highly profitable.  

## Business exists to create and satisfy customers. 

There is only one valid business purpose: to create a customer. Markets are not created by God, nature, or economic forces, but by businesspeople. The want a business satisfies may have been felt by the customer before he or she was offered the means of satisfying it. However, the potential need is converted into an effective demand only after the action of businesspeople converts it. Only then is there a customer and a market.  

## Create customers through marketing and innovation. 

Because its purpose is to create a customer, the business enterprise has two and only two functions: marketing and innovation. Consumerism demands that business start out with the needs, the realities, and the values of the cmustomers. It demands that the business base its reward on its contribution to the customer.  

### Marketing is not sales. 

A common misconception is that marketing is sales. Sales process starts with the product to sell, whereas marketing process starts with the customers to satisfy. In this sense, sales and marketing are antithetical rather than synonymous or even complementary.  

A business enterprise can exist only in an expanding economy, one that considers change both natural and acceptable. Business is the specific organ of growth, expansion, and change. It is not enough for the business to provide just any economic goods and services; it must provide better and more economic ones.  

### Innovation is not invention. 

Innovation may result in a lower price. The most productive innovation, however, is a different product or service creating a new potential of satisfaction, rather than an improvement. Typically, this new and different product costs more. Yet, its overall effect is to make the economy more productive. Innovation may be finding new uses for old products. Technologically, there is only the same old product, but economically, there is innovation. 

Above all, innovation is not invention. It is a term of economics rather than of technology. 