+++
date = 2020-01-07T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "The Effective Executive"
authors = ["Peter Drucker"]
season = "S01: The Effective Executive"
title = "E01: What Makes an Effective Executive"
+++

Peter Drucker is celebrated by business schools and journals as "the father of modern management" (Claremont Graduate University) and "the man who invented management" (Bloomberg BusinessWeek). In his writing from 2004 on the Harvard Business Review, Drucker summarizes the observations he made while teaching and consulting executives of the world's most successful companies.  

An effective executive is not necessarily the charismatic leader commonly pictured when one hears the term, "executive". What makes an effective executive, in the end, are the performance and achievements of the team. During the 65 years of his consulting career, Drucker met effective executives with varying personalities, attitudes, and values. Yet, he found that all effective executives share the following traits.  

## 1. They acquire the knowledge they need. 

Effective executives constantly seek to clarify what needs to be done. What distinguishes the most effective of them from the rest is that the effective executives do not fall in the trap of what they want to do, and instead focus on what they need to do. 

President Harry Truman, when he stepped into the office, wanted to complete the reforms of Roosevelt's New Deal. CEO Jack Welch, when he assumed his position at General Electric, wanted to launch overseas expansion and build a powerful multinational conglomerate. Faced with their responsibilities as executives, however, both sacrificed what they wanted to do to achieve what had to be done for the best interest of their organizations: respectively, containing Communism in Europe and Asia through Marshall Plan, and trimming down GE businesses that could not be leaders in their industries. As a result, Truman became the most effective president in foreign affairs the United States has ever known, and the Marshall Plan spearheaded 50 years of worldwide economic growth, and Jack Welch had multiplied the value of GE by 4,000% during his tenure as the CEO.  

Many executives are distracted into focusing on what is best for the derivatives of the enterprise: shareholders, executives, employees. While they are important, Drucker urges executives to represent the interest of enterprise itself. A prime example of executives who put the enterprise above all else is the DuPont family who did not hesitate to put behind the interest of their own family to build a strong lasting enterprise.  

While the DuPont family ensured male family members an entry level position into their company, the family members were only promoted when a panel of nonfamily members judged that the family member is superior to all their peers in ability and performance.  

In his autobiography, Jack Welch shared that he asks himself every 5 years, "What needs to be done now?" Every time he does, he finds new and different priorities. To be effective, an executive constantly clarify what is right for the enterprise, and defend the interest of the enterprise as she is trusted to do.  

## 2. They convert the knowledge into effective action. 

Effective executives are exceptional at converting visions into reality. They develop feasible action plans that if followed, then desired results will follow. They assume responsibilities for the decisions such that the team can fearlessly brainstorm and pursue the ideas. They focus, not on the blockers, but on the opportunities,  

Napoleon, who launched successful military campaigns and led France to dominate Europe unchallenged for more than a decade, said no successful battle ever followed its plan. Yet, he plans every single one of his battles meticulously. 

Without an action plan, the executive becomes a prisoner of events. Napoleon said no successful battle ever followed its plan, yet he planned every one of his battles meticulously. Without an action plan, the executive becomes a prisoner of events. The executive must lead the enterprise through the changing markets, and not be reduced to a state of being busy, merely responding to what is happening to the enterprise.  

## 3. They ensure the whole organization feels responsible and accountable.  

Effective executives run effective meetings. In every study of the executive workday, Drucker found that executives spend more than half of every business day in meetings. Effective meetings should be confined to the topic at hand and be prepared for. Directly responsible individuals should prepare drafts to discuss and disseminate a summary of the decisions made after the meeting. Most importantly, the audience, including the executives, should not take over the presentation of the directly responsible individuals.  

Effective executives also make sure decisions made by them or the team are decisions that will be carried out. A decision will not be carried out unless people know:  

* the name of the person accountable for carrying it out;  
* the deadline;  
* the names of the people who will be affected by the decision and therefore have to know about, understand, and approve it;  
* the names of the people who have to be informed of the decision, even if they are not directly affected by it.  

It is easy to make mistakes in the decision making process, but the consequences can be detrimental. One of Drucker's clients lost its leadership position in the Japanese market, because it never made clear who is carrying out which actions after it decided to enter into a joint venture with a Japanese partner. Executives must assume the full responsibility for decisions and communications.  

## "We" before "I"  

Executives bear the ultimate responsibility that can neither be shared nor delegated, but their authority originates from the trust of the organization; its stakeholders, such as the shareholders, employees, and even customers and the government. Simple in words, but difficult in action: executives must put their organization before themselves.  

Effective executives are the executives who get the right things done. Effectiveness is a discipline. And, like every discipline, effectiveness can be learned and must be earned.  