+++
date = 2021-04-18T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "The Innovator's Dilemma"
authors = ["Clayton Christensen"]
season = "S02: The Innovator's Dilemma"
title = "E03: Upward Mobility and Downward Immobility"
+++

## Disruptive technological change
Disruptive technological change happens in 6 steps. 
Step 1: Disruptive technologies were first developed within established firms. Established firms led in research and development of disruptive technologies, but entrants led in commercializing them. 
Step 2: Marketing personnel then sought reactions from their lead customers. 
Step 3: Established from step up the pace of sustaining technological development. 
Step 4: New companies were formed, and markets for disruptive technologies were found by trial and error. Founders of new companies were usually frustrated engineers from established firms. 
Step 5: The entrants moved upmarket. Customers in established markets eventually embraced new technologies they had rejected earlier once new technologies offered same level of performance in the traditional performance metrics as well. 
Step 6: Established firms belatedly jumped on the bandwagon to defend their customer base. By this time, entrant firms had developed insurmountable advantages in manufacturing cost and design experience, and the old firms eventually withdrew from the markets. 

## The Technology S-Curve Framework
The technology s-curve predicts whether an emerging technology will supplant an established one. The operative trigger is the slope of the curve of the established technology. If the curve has passed its point of inflection, so that its second derivative is negative (the technology is improving at a decreasing rate), then a new technology may emerge to supplant the established one. 
The value network suggests that technology S-curves are only useful with sustaining technologies. Disruptive technologies improve at a parallel pace with established ones. Their trajectories do not intersect. Therefore, the S-curve framework is not useful in assessing a disruptive technology. A new disruptive technology replaces the old sustaining technology, not when its S-curve surpasses the S-curve of the old sustaining technology, but when its S-curve meets the needs of the market. 

## What goes up can’t come down
Because a company faces the pressure from shareholders to continuously grow their profit, a company has upward mobility, but not downward mobility. Successful companies also gradually come to acquire the cost structures required to compete in upper market tiers. This exacerbates their problem of downward immobility. 
On top of that, middle managers are rewarded for big successful projects, but penalized for all failures. As a consequence, middle managers, acting in both their own and the company’s interest, back those projects for which market demand seems most assured. 
This means that big organizations are suited for big markets and small organizations are suited for small markets. Because new disruptive technologies initially appeal to only a small market, the best way for a big organization to become a leader in commercializing new disruptive technologies is by spinning off or acquiring a small organization. 

## Pressure to maintain growth
Companies of all size face the pressure to continue growth. However, maintaining growth becomes progressively more difficult as a company becomes large and successful. When a company is small, the company can grow by capturing more of the market. However when a company is big, the company can only maintain its rate of growth if it can grow the overall market or find new markets. 
Newton from Apple Computers ultimately failed. However, Apple had done everything correct in launching the product. Apple was an early entrant into the hand-held computer market. Apple had aggressively invested scores of millions of dollars into developing Newton. Newton’s features were defined through one of the most thoroughly executed market research efforts in corporate history. Apple CEO John Sculley made Newton a personal priority and ensured it received the technical, financial, and marketing resources it needed. 
In fact, the timing of Newton’s entry into the handheld market was akin to the timing of its successful Apple II into the desktop market. Newton was a market-creating, disruptive technology. However, while selling 43,000 units of Apple II was viewed as an IPO-qualifying success in the small Apple of 1979, selling 140,000 units of Newton was viewed as a failure in the giant Apple of 1994. 
Because emerging markets are small by definition, organizations competing in them must be able to become profitable at a small scale. 