+++
date = 2021-04-20T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "The Innovator's Dilemma"
authors = ["Clayton Christensen"]
season = "S02: The Innovator's Dilemma"
title = "E06: Product Life Cycle"
+++

A company faces the need to grow infinitely, but the size of any market is finite. As a result, the company is forced to increase the price of its products by supplying more performance even when the market does not demand it. Historically, growth rate of performance supply has exceeded the growth rate of performance demand, and this performance oversupply created opportunities for new disruptive technologies to emerge and disrupt established markets from below.  

## The product evolution model 

The product evolution model was originally invented by Windermere Associates. The model describes that a product lives through four phases of life: functionality, reliability, convenience, and price. When no available product satisfies the functionality requirements of the market, the basis of competition, or the criteria by which product choice is made, is product functionality. When multiple products satisfy market demand for functionality, customers prefer or pay a premium for the most reliable product. Following a similar pattern, the buying criteria switches from reliability to convenience, then from convenience to price. Disruptive technologies are simpler and cheaper, and they typically lead to more reliable, more convenient, and more price-competitive products. 

Christensen observed that established firms viewed their primary development challenge as a technological one. They assumed a fixed market, then searched for the most suitable technology to satisfy the market. In contrast, disruptive firms viewed their primary development challenge as a marketing one. They searched for a market where product competition occurred along the dimensions that favored the disruptive attributes of their products.  

## Case Study: Performance Oversupply in Accounting Software 

Scott Cook, the founder of Intuit, observed that 85% of all companies in the United States were too small to employ an accountant, and their books were kept by proprietors or family members who had neither the need for nor an understanding of mainstream accounting software.  

Intuit introduced a disruptive Quickbooks software that provided adequate, not superior, functionality, and captured 70% of the market within two years. In response, established firms released packages with even more functionalities, moving upmarket, and focusing on sophisticated users. Of the three leading established firms, only one survived and captures a small portion of the market. 