+++
date = 2021-04-20T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "The Innovator's Dilemma"
authors = ["Clayton Christensen"]
season = "S02: The Innovator's Dilemma"
title = "E07: Junwon's Notes on The Innovator's Dilemma"
+++

## On profit margin 

Clayton Christensen focused on studying disruptive technologies that are simpler and cheaper than sustaining technologies. He explained that because these disruptive technologies create lower profit margins, established firms are incapable of finding the willingness to compete against the disruptive firms.  

However, high profit margin products like the iPhone have also proven to be successful disruptive technologies. I would focus on the total profit rather than the profit margin (profit per unit sold). Despite a high profit margin in the smartphone market, Nokia (the original market leader) could not find willingness to focus on competition against Apple (the new market entrant). This is because Nokia estimated the total addressable market to be small and therefore expected a low total profit.  

## On niche markets 

Clayton Christensen advised disruptive firms to focus on finding a market in which established firms will have difficulty finding the willingness to compete. However, reader should not try to find a niche market with a sustaining technology. A manager should always be planning next steps. Capturing a niche market with a sustaining technology will give the firm no advantage over established firms in the larger, more lucrative market. Capturing a small market is only valuable if the firm can accumulate experience working with disruptive technology in the process. Only then, the firm will have a meaningful competitive advantage over the established firms.  

## On technology and marketing 

Clayton Christensen describes that established firms view their primary challenge as technological development, but disruptive firms view theirs as marketing.  

Established firms lock their target on other firms and focus on developing new (sustaining) technologies that beat the (sustaining) technologies of their competitors. However, a technology is not in competition against other technologies. A technology is a means through which the firm satisfies customer demands. In this regard, excessive technology is unnecessary cost. Therefore, the firm should focus on developing, not maximum, but minimum technology required to satisfy market demands for functionality, reliability, convenience, and price.  

Whereas disruptive firms should focus on marketing, it is important to remember that marketing is not limited to advertising. Advertising assumes a fixed target market and focuses on maximizing customer adoption within that market. What is more important to a disruptive firm is finding the most suitable target market in the first place. Thus, a disruptive firm that focuses on advertising and thinks it is focused on marketing will fail. 