+++
date = 2021-04-20T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "The Innovator's Dilemma"
authors = ["Clayton Christensen"]
season = "S02: The Innovator's Dilemma"
title = "E04: The Solutions to The Innovator’s Dilemma"
+++

## Managing Disruptive Technological Change
It is not enough to understand the future needs of the customers and develop new technologies to satisfy them. Successful managers harnessed following principles to manage disruptive technological change. 
They assigned projects to develop and commercialize disruptive technologies within an organization whose customers needed them. Near term customer demand increased the probability that the innovation would get the resources it needed. 
They assigned projects to develop and commercialize disruptive technologies within an organization small enough to get excited about small opportunities and small wins. 
They planned to fail early and inexpensively in the search for the market for a disruptive technology. 
They leveraged resources of the mainstream organization, but deliberately did not leverage its processes and values. 
They focused on searching for a new market that would find the new disruptive technology valuable rather than on searching for a technological breakthrough that would make the new disruptive technology competitive against the sustaining technologies in mainstream markets. 
### Case Study: Quantum and Plus: Spin Off
Quantum, a leading maker of 8-inch drives, missed the advent of 5-inch drives in the early 1980s. However, when the 3-inch drives first appeared in 1984, Quantum started and financed a new independent firm called Plus and retained 80% ownership. Plus was self-sufficient, with its own executive staff and functional capabilities. When sales of Quantum’s 8-inch drives and 5-inch drives mostly disappeared in 1987, Quantum purchased the remaining 20% of Plus, essentially closed down the old corporation, and installed Plus’s executives in Quantum’s most senior positions. The new Quantum reconstituted as a 3-inch drive maker appealing to OEM desktop computer makers, then moved upmarket toward engineering workstations, and became the largest unit-volume producer of disk drives in the world by 1994. 
## Planning to Learn
Failed ideas are not failed businesses. The dominant difference between successful ventures and failed ones is generally not the astuteness of their original strategy. Guessing the right strategy at the outset is not nearly as important to success as conserving enough resources so that the business can get a second or third stab at finding the right strategy. Those that run out of resources or credibility before they can iterate toward a viable strategy are the ones that fail. 
Managers in most organizations believe that they must not fail. Rightly or wrongly, they believe that if a project that they back fails initially, then their rise through the organization will be blocked. Because learning through failures is intrinsic to the process of finding new markets for disruptive technologies, the inability and unwillingness of individual managers to put their careers at risk acts as a powerful deterrent to the movement of established firms. 
Because disruptive technologies enable something that previously was deemed impossible, neither manufacturers nor customers can know how or why the products will be used. As a result, companies introducing disruptive technologies must plan to learn rather than plan to execute. By accepting that the market cannot be known in advance, a manager can identify what critical information about new markets is necessary, then plan how that information will be acquired. 
## Unanticipated Successes
Philosophies like management by objective and management by exception often impede the discovery of new markets. These systems encourage management to close the gap between what was planned and what happened. That is, they focus on unanticipated failures. However, markets for disruptive technologies often emerge from unanticipated successes. Such discoveries often come by watching how people use products rather than by listening to what they say. 