+++
date = 2020-06-07T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "Hacking Growth"
authors = ["Sean Ellis", "Morgan Brown"]
season = "S06: Hacking Growth"
title = "E01: Hacking Growth"
+++

There is a difference between building a useful product and building a successful business. Designing and developing a great product is difficult, but is only the first step. An entrepreneur with a killer product must still grow that product by figuring out the distribution, gaining a better customer understanding, and building the next iteration of the product. In their book Hacking Growth, Sean Ellis and Morgan Brown present a methodology, inspired by explosive startups like Dropbox and Airbnb, for scaling the customer base from a niche market to the mass market.  

## The need to hack growth 

Dropbox was an instant success. Its beta version grew to 5,000 customers through organic growth alone, and the company’s promotion video went viral on a news aggregator site known as Digg, adding 70,000 new users to the existing 5,000 over a single night. Even with such success, Dropbox had a difficult time breaking out beyond the technology savvy Silicon Valley elites. This is an instantiation of a common pattern. A technology startup builds a killer product, then realizes that it takes a lot more than just building a great product to make an impact in the market.  

Success of many unicorns were driven by the Stanford design thinking methodology: gather data on user needs, methodically generate new ideas, and rapidly test the ideas in the easiest, cheapest way possible, gathering data on user needs in the process. Growth hacking brings this approach, which was traditionally applied to product development, to product marketing. Leveraging on the growing ability of companies to collect, store, and analyze in real time vast amounts of user data, the growth hacking methodology guides product teams through experimenting with new features, new branding, new messaging, and new marketing channels cheaply, quickly, and precisely.  

The duty of the management is the use scientific approaches to systematically increase the probability of success for their business. When the business is struggling to break out beyond the niche market to the mass market, growth hacking is a tool that the management can adopt to find, reach, and learn from customers and hone in the business’s targeting, grow the customer base, and get more value out of each marketing dollar.  

## A systematic approach to hacking growth 

“What agile software development and Lean Startup methodology have done for new business models and product development, respectively, growth hacking does for customer acquisition, retention, and revenue growth.” 

The key to growth hacking is this: a rapid generation and testing of ideas, and the use of rigorous metrics to evaluate, and act on, the results. Growth hacking is not about discovering a single silver bullet solution devised by a clever growth genius. Rather, growth is an accumulation of many small wins created through a team effort. To enable this process, growth hacking recommends companies to create a cross-functional team dedicated to growth hacking and to create a data analysis pipeline to get deep insights into user behavior and preferences through both qualitative and quantitative data. 

Javier Olivan, Vice President of Growth at Facebook, described, “Growth is about engineering systems of scale and enabling our users to grow the product for us.” As a demonstration of his own definition, he led a team of engineers to build a translation engine that allowed Facebook’s users to translate the Facebook website into their languages. This crowdsourcing model allowed Facebook to quickly penetrate into foreign markets without employing expensive translators. Translating a website into a different language scales linearly with the investment. Building a system which allows the website to translate itself through the help of the community scales infinitely given a fixed initial engineering effort. 

## Growth hacking in practice 

After experimenting with many ideas, the growth team at Dropbox finally found the device that turned Dropbox into a cultural sensation: the referral program. As a cash-strapped startup, Dropbox could not offer money to the customers signing up for their service. However, the team realized that the customers who came to them valued something more than money: they valued storage space. What would happen if Dropbox offered people more storage space in exchange for referrals? The team quickly crafted a referral program that gave users an extra 250 MB of space, equivalent to an entire hard disk drive at the time, in exchange for each new user referred and signed up. Moreover, the referred user also received the same 250 MB of additional storage space, making the referrer feel good about giving out referrals.  

LogMeIn, a company building remote desktop software, pivoted from a traditional pay-per-product model to a freemium model to gain a competitive pricing advantage over its fierce competitor, GoToMyPC. To their surprise, the percentage of customers who signed up for their service out of total visitors dropped after they reduced the upfront cost of their service. When the growth team surveyed the customers who fell out of the marketing funnel, they learnt that the reason for the drop in sign up ratio was the innovativeness of their pricing model. The customers did not believe that the service was really free. LogMeIn directed customers to buy the paid version of the product instead, and the conversion rate immediately tripled. What a company thinks is best for the customers might not necessarily lead to a positive feedback from the customers, because just like any other communications, marketing can lead to misunderstandings. That is why using growth hacking to experiment with and learn from the actual customers rather than the hypothetical ones imagined by the company is vital to getting the right message across.  

## More from the authors themselves 

If you are interested in implementing growth hacking methodology at your own company, you can get a copy of Hacking Growth on Amazon, or visit the GrowthHackers website, which is run by the authors themselves, to discuss with other product leaders who are applying growth hacking to their businesses. 