+++
date = 2020-06-07T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "Hacking Growth"
authors = ["Sean Ellis", "Morgan Brown"]
season = "S06: Hacking Growth"
title = "E02: Building and Operating a Growth Task Force"
+++

## The need to build a dedicated growth team 
The goal of growth hacking is to increase the conversion rate from each stage to the next in the customer funnel. The customer funnel has four stages: acquisition, activation, retention, revenue. Traditionally, management used a department ownership model to structure their companies. In this model, acquisition is assigned to the marketing division and the remaining three stages are assigned to product and engineering divisions. Growth effort, however, should span across all four stages.  

Professor Toby E. Stuart at Harvard Business School conducted a study about communication across business units in corporations, and found that two people in different business units, functions, and offices communicate 1,000 times less frequently than do two people in the same ones, implying that there is very little interaction across these boundaries. This is known as the silo problem. Knowledge and expertise are housed within organizational silos.  

Since growth effort must span across all four stages of customer funnel, teams organized in traditional department ownership structure, which suffer from the silo problem, are not well-positioned to succeed growth efforts. That is why authors of Hacking Growth urge companies to create a dedicated growth team that spans across departments such that they can sufficiently work on all four stages of the customer funnel. 

## Running the growth team 
The growth team, which is led by a dedicated growth lead and reports directly to the leadership, should convene once a week. During the weekly meetings, the growth lead should choose a core focus area and a set of objectives for the team to work on for a fixed period of time. The growth lead might establish a monthly, quarterly, or even annual focus area, such as to get more users to upgrade from the free version to the paid version. The growth lead should be fluent in data analysis, product management, and experiment designs. The responsibility of the growth lead is ensuring that the metrics the team has chosen are appropriate to the growth goals established. 

Growth hacking is a continuous cycle comprising of four key steps:  
1. Analyze: analyzing the data and gathering insights 
2. Ideate: generating ideas to experiment 
3. Prioritize: choosing which experiments to run first 
4. Test: running the experiment and collecting the data to analyze 

## Growth Team at BitTorrent 
BitTorrent is an excellent example of an organization that ran a successful growth team. While BitTorrent was a very popular product from the onset, the company had difficulty acquiring purchasing users. No matter how much effort the engineering teams put into making the product great, the company was not seeing any increase in revenue. The company formed a dedicated growth team to investigate into the issue. The first thing the growth team did was surveying the users. The survey revealed that the users actually had no idea there was a paid version of the software in the first place. The team prioritized adding a highly visual button to the home screen, and the product immediately saw a 92% increase in revenue per day from upgrades.  

BitTorrent also suffered from many negative reviews on the App Store. When the growth team was dispatched to tackle this problem, they observed how new users were interacting with the app to find out when they were happiest with the software. It was when they had finished downloading the first file at which point they saw how easy the software was to use. The team placed a pop up alert encouraging users to write reviews right after they finished downloading their first file, and the app store rating of the app saw a healthy increase. 

The BitTorrent growth team also impacted the product development. In their needfinding process, the growth team found that users experienced pain from the software draining the phone’s battery. Having seen this, the growth team proposed to the engineers that they build a feature, just for the paid version, that would turn off the battery-draining background file transfers when the app detected that the phone had less than 35% of battery remaining. They also cleverly promoted the feature in the app to free users when their phone battery started to dwindle, enticing them to upgrade on the spot. This feature proved so popular that it resulted in a 47% increase in revenue for the company.  

## More from the authors themselves 
If you are interested in implementing growth hacking methodology at your own company, you can get a copy of Hacking Growth on Amazon, or visit the GrowthHackers website, which is run by the authors themselves, to discuss with other product leaders who are applying growth hacking to their businesses. 