+++
date = 2020-06-07T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "Hacking Growth"
authors = ["Sean Ellis", "Morgan Brown"]
season = "S06: Hacking Growth"
title = "E04: Testing at High Tempo"
+++

The more experiments you run, the more you learn. It’s really that simple. The high volume is ideal. Big successes in growth hacking come from a series of small wins, compounded over time. Peep Laja, a conversion rate optimization expert, points out that 5% improvement in conversion every month nets an 80% improvement in a year. Bain and Company and Harvard Business School discovered that a 5% increase in retention rate leads to an increase in profits by 25 to 95 percent.  

## Analyze 
Understand the difference between users that love your product and users that hate your product. How can you make the experience for everyone be more like that of the lovers and not like that of the haters? 

## Ideate 
Ideas should be submitted to an idea pipeline, following some template format. It’s important to standardize the format so that ideas can be quickly evaluated, without the team needing to ask lots of follow-up questions. Instead of vague suggestions like “our sign up form is too hard”, submissions must articulate exactly what change is to be tested, the reasoning behind why that change might improve results, and an explanation of how results should be measured.  

Here is an example template for the idea suggestions: 
* Idea Name: Shopping List. 
* Idea Description: Making it easier to view and reorder previously purchased items will increase the number of people who make repeat purchases.  
* Hypothesis: Number of repeat purchases will increase by 20%. 
* Metrics: Number of repeat purchases.  

## Prioritize 
### ICE score 
ICE score stands for Impact (degree to which the ideas will improve the metric being focused on), Confidence (likelihood of experiment producing the expected impact), and Ease (inverse of time and resources needed to run the experiment). Measure Impact, Confidence, and Ease of each experiment idea on a scale of 0 to 10. The ICE score is an equally-weighted average of the three variables. ICE score represents the priority (higher is more important) in which you should run the experiments.  

### Test 
Use a 99% statistical confidence level. Use null hypothesis: the control (not introducing the change) wins by default. Archive the learnings from experiments in a knowledge base.  

During the growth team meeting, the growth lead should recognize team members for number of experiments successfully launched since this variable is fully in the team members’ control. The team should review key positive factors (what team should increase), key negative factors (What team should decrease), and growth focus areas. Team should also review their own velocity by comparing the number of experiments launched successfully with number of experiments planned but not launched. Lastly, team should review idea submission process and make it more efficient. 

## More from the authors themselves 
If you are interested in implementing growth hacking methodology at your own company, you can get a copy of Hacking Growth on Amazon, or visit the GrowthHackers website, which is run by the authors themselves, to discuss with other product leaders who are applying growth hacking to their businesses. 