+++
date = 2020-03-07T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "Measure What Matters"
authors = ["John Doerr"]
season = "S03: Measure What Matters"
title = "E01: Measure What Matters"
+++

Objectives and Key Results (OKR) framework is widely used in the technology industry for setting objectives and tracking progress. The OKR framework earned its fame after Google in its infancy has adopted the method to brings its projects into order. In Measure What Matters, John Doerr, the man who brought the framework to Google, explains the OKR framework.  

## History of OKR and Its Predecessors 

* Scientific Management (Taylor-Ford Model): Frederick Winslow Taylor and Henry Ford were the first to measure output systematically and analyze how to get more of it. They held that the most efficient and profitable organization was authoritarian.   
* Management by Objectives (MBO): Peter Drucker believed Taylor-Ford Model is not fit for knowledge work. Drucker wrote that a corporation should be a community built on trust and respect for the workers, not just a profit machine. He urged subordinates be consulted on company goals.   
* HP Way and iMBO: HP and Intel adopted Peter Drucker’s MBO and called it, respectively, HP Way and iMBO (Intel MBO). iMBO, by Andy Grove, amended MBO by tracking key performance indicators.  
* Objectives and Key Results (OKR): John Doerr learnt iMBO from Andy Grove, renamed it to OKR, and applied it to his portfolio companies at KPCB, including Google. 

## What OKR is and What OKR is for 
* OKR is “a management methodology that helps to ensure that the company focuses efforts on the same important issues throughout the organization”.   
* OKRs give visibility into an organization and a productive way to push back.  
* OKR is meant to be shared with all other employees in the organization. The lowest ranking contributor can see everybody else’s OKRs up to the CEO (and more importantly, horizontally in other teams).  
* Once set, progress in regard to OKRs should be checked at least once a quarter. Google checks once a month.  
* OKR is flexible. It is not meant to be a financial commitment or a weapon against an employee in their performance review. If this is not clarified, teams will resort to unambitious OKRs or waste time looking for the perfect OKRs. 
* At any point in cycle, for any Os or KRs, the team can perform any of four operations: 
  * Continue: If team is on track and goal is not broken, then don’t fix it.  
  * Update: Circumstance has changed and OKR needs to be revised consequently. This includes schedule and priorities. 
  * Start: Launch a new OKR mid-cycle whenever the need arises.  
  * Stop: When a goal has outlived its usefulness, drop it. 
* John Doerr sets OKRs quarterly, and starts brainstorming Q2 OKRs midway through Q1.  

## How to Set Objectives and Key Results 
* An objective is what is to be achieved. Objectives are significant, concrete, action oriented, and inspirational. They’re a vaccine against fuzzy thinking and fuzzy execution.  
* Key results benchmark and monitor how we get to the objective. Effective KRs are specific and time-bound, aggressive yet realistic. They are measurable and verifiable. You either meet a key result’s requirements or you don’t; there is no gray area.  
* Objectives are compared to principle and vision. Key results are compared to practice and execution.  
* Less is more. There should be only three to five objectives per cycle, and each objective should be tied to three to five key results only.
* “All key results are completed” must be equivalent to “objective is achieved”.  
* Non-Numeric KRs are allowed: Marissa Mayer reportedly said, “It’s not a key result unless it has a number”, but John Doerr’s definition of KR, or the best practice examples from KPCB portfolio companies, Intel, and Google, have key results that are not numeric. However, John Doerr’s definition of KR and best practice examples from KPCB portfolio companies, Intel, and Google, allow KRs that are binary achievements (e.g. “Release X” or “Complete Migration”), and I believe adopting that flexible definition of KRs will make it easier for us (Bing MM) to ensure that “achieving every KR” is equivalent to “achieving the associated O”. 

## Setting Ambitious OKRs 
* Goals should be challenging. 
* Edwin Locke, a psychology professor at University of Maryland who influenced Andy Grove, published that hard goals drive performance more effectively than easy goals, and specific hard goals produce a higher level of output than vaguely worded ones.   
* If you are certain you are going to nail a key result, you’re not pushing yourself hard enough. “OKRs are big, not incremental. We don’t expect to hit all of them. If we do, we’re not setting them aggressively enough.” (Google OKR Playbook). 
* “You are not supposed to strive for greens on every OKR you write. . . It took courage to write an OKR that might fail, but there was no other way if we wanted to be great.” (Sundar Pichai).  

## Setting OKRs Up and Down in the Organization 
* Top Down and Bottom Up  
* Set goals from the bottom up. To promote engagement, teams and individuals should be encouraged to create at least half of their own OKRs, in consultation with managers. When all objectives are set top down, motivation is corroded.  
  * An optimal OKR frees contributors to set some of their objectives and most or all of their key results.   
* Some, but not all, key results at a level become objectives at the level below. (Note that key results, not objectives, become objectives of the level below).  
  * When all objectives are cascaded, the process can degrade into a mechanical, color-by-numbers exercise. Tightly cascading organizations tend to resist fast and frequent goal setting. Even minor updates can burden downstream. Tight cascading locks in vertical alignment, but is not effective in connecting peers horizontally.  
* Remind, a KPCB portfolio company, involves team members in voting on their quarter’s top objectives in order to ensure that OKRs are not just top down. 

## Best Practice Examples 

### Example: An OKR that John Doerr actually used when he was at Intel 
|Objective: Demonstrate the 8080’s superior performance as compared to the Motorola 6800.|
|-|
|Key Results: (as measured by)
1. Deliver five benchmarks. 
2. Develop a demo. 
3. Develop sales training materials for the field force. 
4. Call on three customers to prove the material works.|

### Example: Operation Crush by Andy Grove at Intel 
|Intel Corporate Objective: Establish the 8086 as the highest performance 16-bit microprocessor family, as measured by:|
|-|
|Key Results: (Q2 1980)
1. Develop and publish five benchmarks showing superior 8086 family performance (Applications). 
2. Repackage the entire 8086 family of products (Marketing). 
3. Get the 8MHz part into production (Engineering, Manufacturing). 
4. Sample the arithmetic coprocessor no later than June 15 (Engineering).|

|Engineering Department Objective: Deliver 500 8MHz 8086 parts to CGW by May 30.|
|-|
|Key Results: (as measured by) 
1. Develop final art to photo plot by April 5. 
2. Deliver Rev 2.3 masks to fab on April 9. 
3. Test tapes completed by May 15. 
4. Fab red ta start no later than May 1.|

### Example: Hypothetical Sports Team by John Doerr to Illustrate Cross-Level OKRs 
|Head Coach (Level Above) Objective: Win Super Bowl.|
|-|
|Key Results: (as measured by) 
1. Passing attack amasses 300+ yards per game. 
2. Defense allows fewer than 17 points per game. 
3. Special teams unit ranks in top 3 in punt return coverage.|

|Offensive Coach (Level Below): Objective: Generate 300-yards-per-game-passing-attack.|
|-|
|Key Results: (as measured by) 
1. Achieve 65% pass completion rate. 
2. Cut interceptions to fewer than 1 per game. 
3. Hire new quarterbacks coach.|

|Defensive Coach (Level Below): Objective: Give up fewer than 17 points a game.|
|-|
|Key Results: (as measured by) 
1. Allow fewer than 100 rushing yards per game. 
2. Increase number of sacks to 3+ per game. 
3. Develop a Pro Bowl cornerback.|

|Special Teams Coach (Level Below): Objective: Improve on top 3 ranking for punt coverage team.|
|-|
|Key Results: (as measured by) 
1. Allow fewer than 10 yards per punt return. 
2. Block 4+ punts over the season.|

### Example: Intuit 
|Objective: Modernize, rationalize, and secure the technology used to run the business of Intuit.|
|-|
|Key Results: (as measured by)
1. Complete the migration of Oracle eBusiness Suite to R12 and retire 11.5.9 this quarter. 
2. Deliver wholesale billing as a platform capability by end of FY16. 
3. Complete onboarding of agents in small business unit to Salesforce. 
4. Create a retirement plan for all legacy technology. 
5. Draft and get alignment on new Workforce Technology strategies, roadmaps, and principles.|

### Example: Google YouTube 
|Objective: Reach 1 billion hours of watch time per day [by 2016] with growth driven by:|
|-|
|Key Results: (as measured by) 
1. Search team + Main App (+XX%), Living Room (+XX%) 
2. Grow engagement and gaming watch time (X watch hours per day) 
3. Launch YouTube VR experience and grow VR catalog from X to Y videos.|