+++
date = 2020-07-07T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "Leil Lowndes"
authors = ["Leil Lowndes"]
season = "S07: Leil Lowndes"
title = "E03: Making Loyal Friends and Being a Loyal Friend"
+++

Leil Lowndes has shaped my attention to details when talking to people, over dinner conversations, in business meetings, and at public talks. In her introductory remarks, Lowndes explains the concept of Indra’s net: the world is one large net and at each vertex hangs a small multifaceted jewel. These jewels, which symbolize people, are all interconnected and are shining on each other. No person can shine alone. You can only shine when others shine you, and others can only shine when you shine them. This is a collection of her advice, gathered across multiple books, that you should know to treat properly the people who are most important to you. 

**Express explicitly.**

If you are grateful, thank them. If you are sorry, apologize. If you love them, do not hesitate to tell them so. It is this simple, yet even the smartest of us fail to get this simple thing right.  

**Speak like the opposite gender.**

If you are a male, speak what you observed before you get to the conclusion. When you make a request, be careful not to sound demanding, adding “would you” at the front and “please” at the end. Be mindful to reduce objective facts and express more emotions. Remember to ask for their opinion instead of assuming they will speak out their mind unprompted.  

If you are a female, speak with a calm tone, and speak directly without hesitation. Instead of going roundabout, get to the point directly. Reduce customary phrases that show humbleness like, “I’m sorry to interrupt, but.” Express less emotions, and rely more on objective facts. 

**Find out what they want to be recognized for.**

Bring up a fun conversation topic like what they want written on their gravestone, and find out what they are most proud of, what they want to be remembered by, what point they want to prove. Wait a month so that they would forget they shared this with you, and compliment them exactly on that point. Then, they will feel they are finally recognized for what they want to be recognized for.  

**Emphasize the “we” relationship.**

Strangers meet as “you” and “I”, and grow to be friends who, as “we”, share a common fate. Make the leap by using the expression often. For example, say, “we are lucky to have a great weather like this!” Make them subliminally think they are one and the same with you. 

**Prepare a lovely blow.**

Leil calls short cheerful expressions “lovely blows.” For example, these are “That’s it, John!”, “Way to go, Charlie!” and “You got this, Katie!” Make the lovely blow your character to the point that when they want to impersonate you, they will imitate this. 

**Sometimes, give them a killer compliment.**

Save it so that when you make the killer compliment, it is really special. Compliment an extreme compliment that specifically only applies to the one person, based on their unique strength or trait. The key is being personal and specific. 

**Give a second thank you.**

When your friend has done you a favor, thank them immediately in a timely manner. Then, after 2 to 4 weeks, give them a second thank you. This will show that you are really grateful for what they have done for you and have remembered the favor they have done for you. 

**If you want to impress someone, give your credit card to the restaurant in advance.**

During the dinner, pretend you are going to the restroom and give your credit card to the restaurant. Then when you ask for the check, they will bring you one that is already processed and just needs your signature for the tip. This is the smoothest way to handle the bill when you want to pay for it. 

**Make it evident to them you are paying attention to them.**

Don’t just turn the phone off. Make sure they can see and hear you turning the phone off. Make sure they know when you are with them, you prioritize them above all else. 

**Keep track of big news happening around them.**

Find out what the big news are in the city they are living in or the company they are working in. They will feel like you are close to them even if you are far, and feel like you care about them. 

**Keep track of a special history between you and them.**

Make a special history between you two, and remind each other of the special memories. For example, making nicknames or replacing “hello” with “quack quack” for reasons that only you and they know. 

**Never let a conversation be interrupted if someone is enjoying it.**

If someone is enjoying talking about a topic, or if someone is being complimented, do not change the topic. If the conversation is interrupted, for example by the waiter receiving the order, be the person to restore the conversation back to the topic.  

If someone else in the conversation changed the conversation topic, you can repeat the few keywords to restore the conversation. For example, the conversation was about movies and someone interrupted saying that it is going to rain this weekend, say, “When it’s raining, I like to watch movies on my TV rather than going to the theater.” 

**Do not spread the failure stories or weaknesses of others.**

Making fun of another person is never a pleasant topic for the person or the listeners.  

**Cut ties with people who undermine you.**

If someone makes fun of your complex, especially in front of others, cut your ties with them. They will be of no help to you in your life. You also need to demonstrate to others how such disrespect will be treated. 

**Let them finish the rant.**

If someone is angry, either at you or someone else, hear them out. Let them speak out their mind completely. People often disguise their true reason for being angry with a red herring. If you interrupt them early, the argument will only beat around the bush and not get to the point. Let them speak, without agreeing or disagreeing with them, asking just the right amount of questions to dig deeper into their true source of anger. Then, they will get to their true reason. Only then, you can resolve their anger, or sympathize with them without taking a side. 

**Turn away from what they do not want you to know.**

Sometimes, we might encounter information that other friends do not want us to know about. These are not embarrassing mistakes, but detrimental blows like a disorder, a love affair, or a past they do not want you to know about. Stop the conversation if you think a third party is going to expose it, and walk away if you cannot stop them. You don’t want to be the person who knows too much for them to keep around either as a friend or an employee. 