+++
date = 2020-07-07T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "Leil Lowndes"
authors = ["Leil Lowndes"]
season = "S07: Leil Lowndes"
title = "E01: Talking the Winner’s Way"
+++

Leil Lowndes has shaped my attention to details when talking to people, over dinner conversations, in business meetings, and at public talks. In her introductory remarks, Lowndes explains the concept of Indra’s net: the world is one large net and at each vertex hangs a small multifaceted jewel. These jewels, which symbolize people, are all interconnected and are shining on each other. No person can shine alone. You can only shine when others shine you, and others can only shine when you shine them. This is a collection of her advice, gathered across multiple books, that are especially useful to business leaders who must represent other stakeholders to potential partners or be mindful of the power imbalance in conversations with others. 

**Do not see mistakes. Do not hear mistakes.** 

Once, I was having a dinner with successful executives at a nice restaurant. I heard a piercing sound of dishes shattering, and I turned my head to find that a waiter had dropped his plate. Others in the restaurant saw him with pity too, and some even sighed. Then, I noticed that not a single person on my table turned their head toward the waiter. In fact, none of them seemed to have even noticed any anomalies.  

Later that evening, the head of marketing at a firm accidentally spilled her coffee while making gestures. I picked up my napkin on my lap to hand her, but she continued her presentation without a pause. Though her hands were cleaning the coffee, her face and her words continued the presentation as if nothing had happened. The audience gave their undivided attention to her presentation as if they were unaware that her coffee had been spilled. 

Successful people do not pay attention to the mistakes of others around them. They let go the mistakes of others. When I asked one of them after the dinner whether they had not noticed the waiter’s mistake, he told me, “We are all on the VIP list of that restaurant. If even one of us squinted our eyes at the waiter, he might have been fired. That is not polite.” 

When others make a mistake, pretend you didn’t hear them; pretend you didn’t see them. Never, under any circumstance, make a joke using the mistakes of others. Never make fun of the complex of others. 

**Be weak to the weak.**

A common trait among admired leaders is that they are exceptionally kind to the people who are not typically treated well, because they belong to lower social classes. The Waiter Rule is an unofficial rule in the business world that if someone is nice to you but rude to the waiter (or other service workers), you should not engage in business with them. 

**Speak at the level of the listeners.**

Speak slowly to foreigners who are not fluent in your language. Do not use jargons if at least one participant is not familiar with industry terms. Use vocabulary that matches the education level of the audience. This is respect.  

Do not talk about the things you have that the listeners do not have. Hide the differences in the lifestyle between you and them, and only talk about what is common between you and them. 

**Show humane weaknesses.**

Show humane, relatable, but not critical, small weaknesses. Then, you can show your soft charisma. President George H.W. Bush shared that he does not like broccoli to achieve this. 

**Smile slowly.**

Make a smile like a leader. Make one that does not disappear quickly. 

**Practice confident posture and movement.**

Walk confidently. Stand confidently. Nothing demonstrates that your position in the society more symbolically than your great posture. Observe successful leaders and imitate their postures. Nervous movements do not help. Fix your gaze on the listener. Do not scratch your body even if it itches. Do not look away even if your eye hurts due to the Sun. Make slow, confident, purposeful movements, and do not move out of reflex in a hasty or a nervous way. 

You need supporters who can trust you and follow you. To assure them, you need to trust yourself and be filled with confidence yourself. If you would not trust yourself, how would others trust you and follow you? 

**Be comfortable with luxury.**

It is easy to spot people are who are in environments they are not familiar with. Clean new suits and expensive whiskey bottles cannot hide the nervous movements and facial expressions of people who have never been to high-end restaurants. Real wealthy act comfortably, and have the flexibility of worn dollar bills.  

If you bought a new suit or dress, wear it in your home the evening before the big day. If you are dining at a restaurant you have never been to before, visit in advance and try their menu. Then on the day of, remember that the comfortable do not care about the opinion of others.  

**Keep your composure.**

Take the leisure of 3 seconds before answering important questions. An intelligent and confident person does not fear making an eye contact with the questioner. 

If you are desperate or in a hurry, this is especially the time you are vulnerable and should be careful enough to conceal the position you are in. Do not rush to giving them a call or an email back too quickly. 

**Speak in a straightforward manner.**

Speak like a successful person. Otherwise, everyone will notice, as a foreigner is noticed speaking his non-native language.  

Successful don’t speak in a roundabout way. They do not fear expressing directly and honestly. They say, “rich” instead of “upper class.” They do not mind how others will think about them. 

Do not use past tense, such as, “I wanted to tell you” or “I was hoping you would”.  

Speak full sentences with subjects and verbs fully clarified and without unnecessary abbreviations or contractions (“I am” instead of “I’m”). Pronounce each word clearly instead of blurring them. 

**Make your chair higher than that of others.**

If you have an important meeting, arrive early and set the height of your chair higher than that of the other chairs. This puts them at a disadvantage in the negotiation. 

**Nod upward.**

When you are nodding, start the nod upward rather than downward to show confidence. 

**Share what is in it for you.**

Share honestly what you will gain from any actions that you want others to take. Let them enjoy the joy of helping you. If they heed your request, make sure to let them know how important it was to you so that they can feel good about their actions. 

**Present your vision.**

One who speaks his vision with confident eyes. One who makes her vision come true. One whose words and deeds are aligned with his vision. These are the leaders that attract followers, because only those with vision can create meaningful changes. Prepare great presentations such that at least during the moment, they can see what you see and cheer you enthusiastically. 

**Tell them they can do it.**

Be the person who can give them hope, who can tell them, “You can do it. You can do anything.” Give them unconditional trust like a parent. Give them the confidence they need to do what you need them to do. 

**Timing is the most important factor to giving compliments.**

Give them compliments immediately when they deserve it without waiting. An especially effective technique in giving compliments is giving the same compliment again, but after 2 to 4 weeks, to show that what they did is that impressive. 

**Receiving compliments well is as important as giving good compliments.**

If you lack skills in receiving compliments well, for example, if you deny the compliments someone has extended to you, you will put the giver of the compliment in an awkward position. If you jeopardized them this way, do not expect to receive any more compliments from them. Compliments are like boomerangs. Instead of breaking the play, return a compliment. Seek for ways to compliment them for the compliments they have given you. 

**Show empathy for what they are going through.**

Lowndes was impressed to see a stranger give the following thoughtful order: “You might not want to smell ham and egg at such an early morning, but I would like to order the morning set.” This order shows that the customer is fully in the shoes of the waitress rather than herself.  

**Be quick to resolve small requests.**

If you are asked for a small and easy favor, take care of it quickly. The requester will feel special to know that someone as busy as you prioritized their small request. 

**Show an unconditional trust to your team members.**

Booker T. Washington famously said, “Few things can help an individual more than to place responsibility on him, and to let him know that you trust him.” Once you trusted a person to be on your team, grant her the full trust and responsibility she deserves. 

**Direct the credit to the others.**

Everyone has the desire to feel important and competent, and they will go at length to heed the requests of people who satisfy their such desire. If you need a business partner, do not start the conversation by explaining how great your business idea is. Start by saying that you are sharing your idea, because your trusted friend recommended her to be an expert in the field and can be of great help to you. 

**Take note of details about people you meet.**

If you find out that somebody likes white wine, take notes secretly. Then, few weeks later, start your message by asking them if they enjoyed any good white wines lately, or even send them a bottle if there is an occasion.  

**Have a consistent personality and kindness over calls, emails, and in person.**

Communicating with someone over phone or email has a much lower communication bandwidth than communicating with them in person. It takes more social skills to convey the same level of personality and kind tone when the bandwidth is lower. Do not make the common mistake of sounding curt or uninterested when communicating over call or text.  

**Distinguish between the work time and private time of others.**

Separating the public and the private is a basic business manner for professionals. Do not discuss work when you encounter business partners at non-work occasions.  

**Do not request their professional expertise for free.**

Professional expertise is the greatest asset to professionals. Asking them to use their skills for free shows that you lack such valuable skills yourself and therefore cannot understand the value of their professional expertise. If someone else makes the mistake to you, let them know how they can make an appointment. 

**Make good handshakes.**

Reach into their hand until your skin between your thumb and your index finger meets theirs. Apply a small pressure on the back of their hand, but maintain enough space between the palms to fit a small pearl. Your hand should be at a right angle with the ground. Gently place your index finger on their wrist vein. 

**Wear a scent.**

Doctor Rachel Hertz in the field of psychology published studies showing that scent is an exceptionally strong trigger for making people remember the previous occasions at which they smelled the scent. This effect is also known as the Proust effect after Marcel Proust, an author whose memoir begins by him remembering his old memories after taking a bite of a madeleine dipped in black tea. Wear a perfume or a cologne such that the people you meet can remember you by your scent. 

**Treat their business card as you would treat them.**

When you receive a business card, receive it with two hands, hold it carefully, and stare into it for a few seconds. Then, place the business card carefully in a metal business card case. A business card is a symbol of the person. Study their business card to find any topics to talk about with them. 

**Show you want to spend more time with them when you are saying goodbye to them.**

If they are departing in a car, do not walk away or look away until they disappear from your sight.  

If you are both walking away, walk slowly away from them for about 3 meters, then walk hastily to show that you would go at length to be late to your next appointment to stay with them until the end. 

**Remember the people who are not remembered.**

Remember the second place. Remember the people much lower than you in the ranks. If they do not expect you to remember them and find that you do, they will be grateful to you. 