+++
date = 2020-07-07T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "Leil Lowndes"
authors = ["Leil Lowndes"]
season = "S07: Leil Lowndes"
title = "E04: Winning Colleagues to Your Side"
+++

Leil Lowndes has shaped my attention to details when talking to people, over dinner conversations, in business meetings, and at public talks. In her introductory remarks, Lowndes explains the concept of Indra’s net: the world is one large net and at each vertex hangs a small multifaceted jewel. These jewels, which symbolize people, are all interconnected and are shining on each other. No person can shine alone. You can only shine when others shine you, and others can only shine when you shine them. This is a collection of her advice, gathered across multiple books, that you should keep in mind when working with your colleagues if you want their support in times of need. 

**Make it easy for others to help you.**

People like to help others. However, responding “anything is fine” makes it difficult and stressful for others to bring you lunch on their way. Alleviate their work by making requests specific like, “Anything is fine as long as it is not the frank sausage sandwich or the cheese sandwich” or “I’ll take the blue one.”  

**Cite the reason when you show gratitude.**

If you want to be special to them, you need to constantly look for ways to be differentiated from the others. If you want your gratitude to stand out among the many customary courtesies that get passed around, you need to make it specific by citing the reason. This will also reinforce it to others that doing you a favor leads to receiving your gratitude.  

**Compliment them to the people who matter to them.**

The most effective way to compliment someone is to give the compliment to people that matter to that person. When you meet their superior, lover, or family, do not miss the opportunity to give them a great compliment (once again, citing specific instances between you and the person).  

If you are impressed by someone’s service, take a moment to think or ask them about how you can most effectively share the satisfaction, then follow through.  

**Family of VIPs are VIPs themselves.**

When you meet the family, partner, children, or even secretaries of VIPs, treat them with the utmost care and attention with which you would treat the VIPs themselves. VIPs will be influenced by their opinions and comments even when making important professional decisions, such as hiring, firing, and promoting. Making an impact on the people around them can be crucial to making an impact on them. 

**Give them the gift of an epic story.**

Do you want to win people to your side? Then make epic stories that feature them as the protagonist. Your epic story will be useful over and over. Every time you get the chance to, perform an encore of your epic story featuring them as heroes. The main characters of your story will feel endless gratefulness, trust, and intimacy to you every time you share the story with others.  

**Address them by name.**

If you can only add one word to your request, the word that will make the biggest change is their name. Start your request by addressing them by name, “Jane, would you …", and end your email by addressing them again, “Have a great day, Jane!” If you do not know their name, address them by their title. 

It is also important that you mention their name before the position. This will show that you see them as respected friends and colleagues as opposed to seeing them as their roles.  

**Do not interrupt a conversation someone is enjoying.**

If another person interrupts someone during a topic someone is talking about, bring it up again and let the person continue. They will thank you. If you are an expert on the topic, let them finish. Only then, humbly share that you are also interested in that topic, and mention at least one thing from what they said to show you found their words valuable. For example, “Could you tell me the address of the store where you said you got a good deal for the sailing gears? Thank you for that information.”  

**Listen the way they prefer.**

Different cultures and different people have different preferences for reactions. In Eastern cultures, the respectful behavior is to listen quietly with an undivided attention without interrupting the speaker. In Western cultures, the preferred behavior is to give feedback by nodding one’s head or uttering exclamations. Let them speak first, then match their style and valence. 

**Be a parrot.**

Repeat the first few words or the last few words of the other person in the conversation. Then, the other person will be excited to continue the conversation that you seem to be paying attention to. 

**Use a diverse vocabulary.**

The biggest mistake one can make in giving compliments is repeating the same generic compliment over and over again. Hearing “You look great today!” gets old after hearing it several times. Use diverse expressions to make them feel new every time they hear your compliment. If you want to say they are smart, try witty, wise, or clever instead. 

**Use unique expressions.**

If you are using metaphors, use descriptive metaphors that are not cliche. For example, “happy like a child who has tasted an ice cream for the first time”, or “as sure as the traffic at the beach on a summer vacation.” 

**Appeal to the sense they prefer.**

Notice whether they like to say “feel like”, “seem like”, or “sound like”, then match that. 

Different people also prefer different vocabulary, because they have had different experience with the words. If they prefer drugstore over pharmacy, say drugstore.   

**Know a variety of fun random facts.**

You will meet your colleagues in elevators, lounges, and restrooms. Be ready for the short conversations you will share with them during these encounters by preparing fun jokes, small talks, or latest news from around the world. 

**Quote the present people.**

Whenever you see the chance to, quote the words of people who are present. For example, say “as Steve says, design is not the veneer, but the fundamental soul!” if Steve is with you, rather than quoting a famous designer. 

**Show appreciation for small favors.**

Appreciations for big favors are expected. Give pleasant surprise by deeply appreciating small favors they did not think much about. One company that Lowndes consulted collected the “kudos” cards being sent within the company. What she found interesting is that the leadership monitored how many each employee “sent” rather than “received.” While it is important to give small favors, it is even more important to be sincerely grateful for the small favors we receive from the others. When given favors, especially if they are small and the doers are not expecting any reactions, you should thank them properly.  

**Be a matchmaker.**

Connect people who do not know each other. Give brief thoughtful introductions that explain how each can be of help to the other. Introduce them with interests they share so that they can start a rich conversation with each other. 

**Make them feel treated special.**

When receiving a phone call, even if you know who called you, start with a calm, bored voice. Then when you hear their voice, sound excited as if the clouds have cleared and the sun has risen, and say their name.  

**Hook people into responding.**

If you can’t reach them via call or messenger, make them want to respond to you by saying, “I have a great news to share with you about ...” 

**Compliment them behind their back.**

If you want to compliment Sheryl, compliment Sheryl to her colleagues or friends. Direct compliments can feel customary or even worse, like a flattery. However, hearing that someone complimented you when you are not listening shows that you mean the compliment.  

**Share useful information.**

When you encounter news articles or information that you think will be useful to a colleague, share it with them. Show that you are thinking about them.  

**Write instructions down even if you can remember.**

If someone is giving you complex instructions, even if you can remember, write it down. Give them the assurance that you are paying attention, taking note of details, and understanding their intentions correctly.  

**Speak with the emotion that the listener will feel.**

Think through whether a news will make them feel happy or sad, and share the news in the emotion they will feel rather than the emotion you are feeling due to the news. 

**Appear with a good news.**

Solomon Asch, the psychologist, discovered the primacy effect. In a human interaction, the first impression has a big and lasting effect on how the other person and the interaction itself are perceived. Associate yourself with a good news such that the entire interaction, and you as a person, are associated with the positivity of the good news.  

**Control the choices they have.**

Rather than asking “whether”, ask “when” they would like to meet. Salespeople use this technique to make deals happen. Instead of asking, “So, would you like to make the purchase?”, they ask, “So, would you like to purchase the coral blue or the midnight black?” If you need to make an appointment, instead of asking whether they are free next week, ask which day they do not already have a lunch appointment. 