+++
date = 2020-07-07T00:00:00-00:00
type = "ExecutiveLibrary"
executivelibrary = "Leil Lowndes"
authors = ["Leil Lowndes"]
season = "S07: Leil Lowndes"
title = "E02: How to Talk to and Instantly Connect with Anyone"
+++

Leil Lowndes has shaped my attention to details when talking to people, over dinner conversations, in business meetings, and at public talks. In her introductory remarks, Lowndes explains the concept of Indra’s net: the world is one large net and at each vertex hangs a small multifaceted jewel. These jewels, which symbolize people, are all interconnected and are shining on each other. No person can shine alone. You can only shine when others shine you, and others can only shine when you shine them. This is a collection of her advice, gathered across multiple books, that are especially useful when meeting new people. 

**Carry conversation starters.**

Carry eye-catching items, such that someone who wants to begin a conversation with you can come to you and ask, “What a unique fountain pen! Where did you get it?” If you don’t have one handy, go talk to a person who brought a such item. If they have a golf club pin on their tie, ask, “Excuse me. Do you play golf? I just started playing. Could you recommend me...” 

**Eavesdrop.**

Eavesdropping is an effective way to get meaningful information about new people. Stay close to people you want to start conversations with. Then, pay attention to hints that open the door for you. Finally, say “Forgive me. What you just said is of a great interest to me as well!” People welcome others who listen to them attentively. 

**Prepare detailed answers to customary questions.**

There are questions that people ask new people customarily, such as “where are you from?” Don’t just say, “I’m from Gumi, Korea.” Add some interesting details like, “I’m from Washington D.C. The city was designed by the same architect who designed Paris!”, such that the other person can continue the conversation. If they ask, “what do you do?”, don’t just say “I’m a PM.” Don’t assume others know what PMs do, and especially what PMs do in your company. Give others hints by saying, “I’m a PM. The most recent product I worked on is our visual search product. I spent most of last month preparing for the compliance review and marketing for the public launch in November.” 

**Turn the spotlight to them.**

My friend Lisa was charmed by a man named Dan she met at a party. When I asked her about what he does and where he lives, we found out that she knew nothing about him. Next time I met Dan, I asked him, “My friend Lisa had such a great impression of you, yet she didn’t know anything about you after the conversation. How did you do that?” He explained, “When I meet people, I try to ask them about their lives and turn the spotlight to them.” 

If you want to sell your product, you must not make your product shine. You must find ways to make your customer shine whenever and wherever they are with your product. 

**Listen to the body language, not the verbal language.**

Clever Hans was an Orlov Trotter horse who was so smart that he could calculate arithmetic problems involving additions, subtractions, multiplications, and even divisions. When he was asked for the answer to the problem 2 times 3, for example, he could tap his hoof on the floor 6 times. Countless people tried to find out his trick, but Clever Hans answered them correctly every time, including when the trainer was asked to leave the stage in case he was giving hints. Then, Oskar Pfungst, the psychologist, whispered a simple addition question into his ears, and Hans could not answer his question.  

Clever Hans did not know how to solve math problems, but he did know how to read the audience. The math problems were so simple that everyone in the audience immediately knew the correct answer. Hans tapped his hoof, once, twice, so on, until the people got nervous at the right number of taps, and stopped. Learn the sense to observe the subtly changing facial expressions and gestures of other people. See how their body reacts, because they cannot lie in body language. Then, you will know them so well that they will think you are pulling magic tricks on them. 

**Make Eye Contacts.**

A research team at Yale found that a study group that made eye contacts had a statistically significantly more positive perception of the other person even when they did not have any verbal conversations. Biologically, a passionate eye contact increases heartbeat and releases a gush of adrenaline. Eye contact conveys honesty, respect, interest, and confidence. If you do not feel confident making eye contacts, memorize the color of their eyes, the shape of their pupils, and the distance between their eyes. While you make these observations, they will think you made a passionate eye contact you want them to think you made. 

**Maintain a welcoming smile at parties.**

It is a natural reaction to have a serious facial expression when you are feeling nervous at a party with no company. Still, it makes it impossible for others to come in and rescue you from the situation. Put on a welcoming smile and make it easy for others to come to you and start a conversation. 

**Copy their subtle gestures.**

Mimic their smallest movements. If they extend their pinky when drinking from a tea cup, extend your pinky when drinking from your cup. People evolved feel affinity to others from the same culture, and you can blend in by mimicking their behavior. 

**Use the attention you get when you enter the party.**

You can only enter the party once. Open the door, walk in, and wait until everyone sees you. Then, confidently scan the room to choose who to go talk to now or later, based on their expressions and what they wearing. Even if you see someone you know, do not make an eye contact yet so that you can complete your scan. To succeed at the party, you need to be the selector rather than the selected. 

If you don’t know a single person at the party, make a warm smile toward an empty space between people’s heads, and wave, as you walk past the crowd. Even if your eyes meet with someone, they will think you thought they are someone you know. Meanwhile, others will think you know many people there, and feel compelled to get to know you too. Once you have reached the end of the room walking through people, shrug as if you missed the person you were walking toward, and talk to a nearby person who is also there alone. They will feel grateful that a popular person like you will talk to them and rescue them from the awkwardness of being at the party alone. 

**Stay near the entrance of the drink bar.**

Successful people lay siege at the location where others can see them. Stay where others must pass by you so that you can start conversations or meet people without making any additional effort. Drink bar is also useful, since people often seek a new drink when they want to move on and find a new person to talk to.  

**Go early if only a few acquaintances will be at the party.**

If you are early at the party, you will have an easy time introducing yourself one by one to the early arrivers. By the time others arrive, you will already have made many acquittances, namely the early arrivers.  

**Take a friend you can exchange compliment with.**

Take a sidekick, and when you engage in a conversation with a new group, take turns giving compliments or receiving compliments so that the conversation will revolve around you or your friend. This is a very direct way of taking Leil’s indra net metaphor: shine your friend and your friend will make you shine. 

**When you don’t remember their name, introduce yourself again.**

"It was nice to meet you. Once again, I’m Leil.” They will respond by repeating their name too if you repeat yours.  

**Ask empathetic questions about their day.**

Become Sherlock, and deduce the things they had to go through based on hints you can get. For example, if you hear that they had to go through a layover at Chicago, ask whether the transfer gate was not too far, or the airplane ride was not too turbulent, or whether they could catch some sleep. Even when you meet strangers you know nothing about, you can be sure they will be excited to talk about their own day and experience.  

**Search online in advance.**

If you are going to watch a musical, research the profile of the actors, or the latest cities that the crews most recently traveled to. The trick to having great conversations is finding the topic of mutual interest, and people you are going to the same event with will share the same interest the event or the venue. 

If you are meeting someone whose profile is online, and most people’s are these days, find out in advance what they will be interested in talking about, and pretend you serendipitously share the a common interest with them. 

**Prepare for a follow up.**

During each conversation with a person you want to talked to again in the future, ask for some recommendation. Then, you can naturally catch up in the future by saying you forgot what the name of the movie they recommended is. After that interaction, you can follow up yet again by saying you watched the movie, enjoyed it, and want to thank them for their great recommendation. 